>> All of these instructions
point towards just sitting.
It may seem like I'm
asking you to do something,
but there is literally nothing
to do in this meditation.
The meditation is the dropping
of the doing and the doer.
Sitting is just what is left
when there is no more doing
and no doer.
There are many stages of
absorption into this moment,
into what is.
With each stage of
absorption into this moment,
there is a dropping away of
conditioned mind patterns.
It's sometimes said
that to realize samadhi,
it's best to sit as if you
will be sitting forever,
without any sense of time,
without a goal or destination,
without thought.
Don't turn this dropping off
of mind and body into a goal.
If you turn samadhi
into a goal, it
becomes an activity
in the mind or
an unconscious identification.
When you are awake here
and now, what is realized
is the primordial awareness
was always present.
And all stages of
absorption in this moment
are ultimately illusory.
But until awakening is
realized, the practice
helps to make the limited
self-structure more
permeable to awareness.
Let go of all preferences,
pleasant and unpleasant
sensations.
Let go of any discrimination
between this and that.
Let go of any interest
in thoughts whatsoever.
Notice if your mind is
fabricating an external world,
a sense of things
constructed by thoughts.
Notice if you are retreating
into inner emptiness
and pushing away thoughts.
Let go of both the inner
and the outer worlds.
Don't get caught in the
outer world of name and form.
And don't try to
escape into emptiness.
Let everything be exactly as
it is, realizing the truth.
It is the limited dualistic mind
that creates inner and outer.
Witness the witness.
Observe the observer.
The observer is neither inner
nor outer but is aware of all.
If you observe the observer
and you see something,
some object, then it is the
false self, the false eye.
Keep inquiring into
who or what is looking.
Find out who or what you are
beyond the mind and senses.
Realize the self, which
does not come and go.
If it comes and goes,
it is not the true self.
If phenomena arises,
be equanimous
with it, unmoved, unshaken,
inhabiting it fully.
Be present with what is
arising, fully conscious.
Don't get distracted
by what the eyes see.
Recognize emptiness
within all things.
Recognize that by which
seeing is possible.
Don't get distracted
by what the ears hear.
Hear silence within all sound.
Recognize sound as silence.
Recognize that by which
hearing is possible.
Don't get distracted
by what the body feels.
Recognize stillness
within the movement,
within the field of change.
Recognize stillness as movement
and movement as stillness.
Emptiness dancing.
Realize that by which
feeling is possible.
To see the luminous emptiness,
to hear the music of silence,
to feel the emptiness
dancing, we simply
experience this moment as it is,
unmediated by a limited self.
All is empty, unlimited
awareness, dancing as energy,
prana, or love.
The truth is neither
found through perception
nor through nonperception.
Let the entire
universe be your mind.
If the universe is
your mind, then there
is no other than mind.
There is no you and
nothing other than you.
When mind is limited,
it is the egoic self.
When it is unlimited,
it is your true nature.
Meditation has no
beginning and no end.
It does not end when you
get up from the cushion
if it's true meditation.
If you have understood,
not with the understanding
of the limited mind, but
with the hearts knowing.
Meditation is not something
separate from life.
Meditation is life.
[GONG CHIMING]